

=== PAGE 1 ===
CCAPDEV Term 1, AY 2023 – 2024 
Machine Project – Project Specifications Document 
 
Groupings: At most 4 members in a group 
 
SPECIFICATIONS 
For the entirety of the MCO, your task is to create a web application based on the given 
set of web applications described below. The list describes the minimum features 
required to be implemented for the project, but the group may (and is encouraged) to 
implement additional features and capabilities for their selected project.  
The MCO will be split into three different phases, each with their own expectations on 
the project’s progress. You may refer to the phases’ respective documents for the 
specifics on its deliverables. 
The project is at most done in groups of 4. During the development phases, copying 
other group’s work is not allowed and is punishable by a grade of 0.0 for the entire 
CCAPDEV course. A discipline case will be filed with the Discipline Office in case of 
academic dishonesty. 
 
 
LIST OF PROJECT SPECIFICATIONS 
Lab Reservation System 
The following describes the features of a computer laboratory slot (seat) reservation web 
application. Groups must include at least three computer labs in the system. The 
minimum features required to be implemented for this project is as follows: 
● View Slot Availability 
o A user may choose a computer lab and see the current available seats of 
the chosen lab. The user may opt to see the availability of the lab at other 
times for the next 7 days. A user must be a student user to reserve a seat. 
o Note: Users may see who reserved a seat, as long as the reservee did not 
make the reservation anonymously. Clicking on a user’s name should link 
to that user’s profile. Availability must also update periodically so that the 
user does not need to refresh every time. 
● Register 
o A visitor must register if they want to reserve a lab slot. Here, a visitor 
must enter their DLSU email and a password. There should be 2 kinds of 
accounts, the student who can reserve lab slots, and the lab technician 
that can block a time slot for walk-in students. 
 

=== PAGE 2 ===
 
● Login 
o After registering properly, a visitor may log-in. Upon logging in, the option 
to reserve a slot will be open. The user is given the option to be 
“remembered” by the website. When the user chooses this option, every 
log in and visit to the website will exte nd their “remember” period by 3 
weeks. 
● Logout 
o The user may log out from their account. This should cut short the 
“remember” period if it exists, and clears any session-related data. 
● Reserve 
o Students can reserve slots that have not yet been taken. Lab slots are in 
intervals of 30 minutes. The student also has the option whether to reserve 
anonymously or not. The student can reserve more than one slot, and all 
the lab slots will be made under one reservation. A student may not reserve 
a previously reserved slot. 
● Reserve for a student 
o Lab technicians can make a reservation for walk-in students. 
● Remove reservation 
o Lab technicians have the ability to remove reservations of students who 
do not show up within 10 minutes of the reservation. This facility is only 
available 10 minutes of the actual reservation time. This will cancel the 
whole reservation. 
● Edit reservation 
o A student can edit reservations they previously made. 
o Lab technicians are able to edit any reservations. 
● See reservations 
o A user may check their reservations. They can see details such as the seat 
number, the laboratory, the date and time of request, and the date and 
time of reservation. 
● View / Edit User profile 
o Registered users may edit their own profile, which includes a profile 
picture and description. Additionally, the profile should also list the 
student’s current reservations. 
o Users may also view another user’s public profile, but they are not able to 
edit it. 
● Delete User Account 
o Students have the option to delete their own user, ultimately deleting their 
account and cancelling any pending reservations they may have. 
● Search for users / free slots  
o Users can view all the available slots given a provided date and time, and 
the lab. 
● General 

=== PAGE 3 ===
o Good user experience. Visitors can easily navigate without help, all 
information is easy to access. Good visual design. Design suits the theme 
of the application, and is cohesive and consistent across the whole 
application 
 
 
Forum Web Application 
The following describes the features of a forum web application. Groups may choose to 
either design the forum web application as a general-interest forum or one that is more 
catered towards a specific interest group. The minimum features required to be 
implemented for this project is as follows: 
● View all posts 
o Upon visiting the web page, an unregistered visitor may see the 15-20 most 
recently* uploaded post titles and a post description snippet. The user can 
see the next set of uploaded posts, it is up to the group whether to 
implement this in the same (auto-load) or another page. Clicking the post 
title will let the user view the post and the comments (see: view a post).  
o * The user may also see the most popular post based on a calculated 
ranking. 
● Register 
o A visitor must register if they want to post or comment. Here, a visitor 
must enter their username and their password. 
● View a user profile 
o Each user has their own page which shows their profile publicly. On the 
same page, a visitor may see the user’s username, profile picture, and a 
short description. They may also see a portion of the user’s latest posts 
and comments. The visitor may opt to see the rest of the posts and 
comments of the user. 
● Edit Profile 
o A user that is logged in may edit their user profile, wherein they can add 
/ modify a profile picture, and provide a short description (can be left 
empty). 
● Login 
o After registering properly, a visitor may log -in. Upon logging in, the user 
can start posting and commenting. The user is given the option to be 
“remembered” by the website. When the user chooses this option, every 
log in and visit to the website will exte nd their “remember” period by 3 
weeks. 
 
● Logout 

=== PAGE 4 ===
o The user may log out from their account. This should cut short the 
“remember” period if it exists, and clears any session-related data. 
● Post 
o A user may make a text post. They must give a title for the post, and the 
body of the post. Additional points will be given for allowing markup (e.g., 
rich text editing) without the risk of cross site-scripting. 
● View a post 
o A user may view any post they have a link to. This will load the title, the 
body of the post, and the comments of the post. 
● Comment 
o A user can comment on any post, including their own. They may also reply 
to another user’s comments, and the comments can nest indefinitely. 
● Edit / Delete a post 
o The owner of the post may edit their posts at any point. Edited posts 
should have an indication that it has been edited. 
o The owner of the post may delete their post as well. 
● Edit / Delete a comment 
o The owner of the comment may edit their comments at any point. Edited 
comments should have an indication that it has been edited. 
o The owner of the comment may delete their comment. 
● Upvote / Downvote 
o A user can upvote / downvote a post or a comment (including their own) 
once. 
● Search 
o A visitor/user can search for posts by similarities in the title or the post 
body. By entering a search phrase/word, all posts containing it will appear 
as results. 
● General 
o Good user experience. Visitors can easily navigate without help, all 
information is easy to access. Good visual design. Design suits the theme 
of the application, and is cohesive and consistent across the whole 
application 
 
Restaurant / Store / Service Review Web Application 
The following describes the features of a restaurant / store / service review web 
application. Groups may choose to either develop a review web application for either 
restaurants, stores, or services. For realism, groups may base the establishments 
featured in the application from actual establishments that are found around the 
campus. The minimum features required to be implemented for this project is as follows: 
● View establishments  

=== PAGE 5 ===
o Upon visiting the web page, an unregistered visitor may see a list of 
establishments that are featured in the web application.  
o The overall rating and a brief description of the establishment must be 
easily viewed/accessible from the list. 
● View an establishment’s reviews 
o Upon selecting an establishment, an unregistered visitor may see the top 
reviews. The user can also see the next set of top reviews --it is up to the 
group whether to implement this in the same (auto-load) or another page.  
o Reviews can be long, so some of the text in the preview could be truncated. 
Clicking the review will let the user view the review in full detail. 
o Reviews should also include how many registered users found the review 
helpful / unhelpful. 
● Register 
o A visitor must register if they want to post a review. Here, a visitor must 
enter their username, their password, an avatar, and a short description 
(can be left empty). 
● Login 
o After registering properly, a visitor may log -in. Upon logging in, the user 
can start posting reviews. The user is given the option to be “remembered” 
by the website. When the user chooses this option, every log in and visit 
to the website will extend their “remember” period by 3 weeks. 
● Logout 
o The user may log out from their account. This should cut short the 
“remember” period if it exists, and clears any session-related data. 
● View a user profile 
o Each user has their own page which shows their profile publicly. On the 
same page, a visitor may see the user’s username, profile picture, and a 
short description. They may also see a portion of the user’s latest reviews 
and comments. The visitor may opt t o see the rest of the posts and 
comments of the user. 
● Edit Profile 
o A user that is logged in may edit their user profile, wherein they can add 
/ modify a profile picture, and provide a short description (can be left 
empty). 
● Create a review 
o A logged-in user may create a review on a selected establishment. They 
must give a title and the body of the review.  
o A rating must also be given by the reviewer. It is up to the student what 
kind of rating system they choose to implement (e.g., 5 -star rating, 
recommended/not recommended) as long as it can be aggregated to some 
degree.  
o Users must also be allowed to attach media (e.g., image, videos) to their 
review. 

=== PAGE 6 ===
o Additional points will be given for allowing markup (e.g., rich text editing) 
without the risk of cross site-scripting.       
● Mark as Helpful / Unhelpful 
o A logged-in user can mark a review as either helpful / unhelpful once. 
● Edit / Delete a review 
o The owner of the review may edit their review at any point. Edited reviews 
should have an indication that it has been edited. 
o The owner of the post may delete their review as well. 
● Search Establishments / Reviews 
o A visitor/user can search for establishments by similarities in the name 
or the description. By entering a search phrase/word, all establishment 
containing the keyword/phrase will appear. Visitors may also filter 
establishments based on its overall rating 
o A visitor/user can search for reviews on an establishment by similarities 
in the title or the post body. By entering a search phrase/word, all reviews 
containing it will appear as results. 
● Establishment owner response 
o Groups must implement an additional user account role – establishment 
owner. This doesn’t need to be integrated with the register system, and 
credentials can be created manually by the database admin.  
o Establishment owner accounts are tied to a single establishment, and can 
respond to reviews on their establishment. Their responses would then be 
published, making it visible to the public. 
● General 
o Good user experience. Visitors can easily navigate without help, all 
information is easy to access. Good visual design. Design suits the theme 
of the application, and is cohesive and consistent across the whole 
application. 
 
IMPORTANT: Note that for every instance of a create feature that adds data in the 
database of the web application, there should be corresponding features that will allow 
the corresponding user to read, update, and delete the data from the database. For 
example, if you have a feature that allows the user to create a post, the user should 
also be allowed to read/view the post, update/edit the post, and delete/remove the 
post. 
 
 
WORKING WITH GROUPMATES 
For this project, you are encouraged to work in groups of at most 4 members. Make sure 
that each member of the group has approximately the same amount of contribution for 

=== PAGE 7 ===
the project. Problems with groupmates must be discussed internally within the group, 
and if needed, with the lecturer. 
 